friends here.
We're going to discuss the very first a data structure off your python that is listed data
structure.
So first,
let me weapon my note pad and I will show you how to define a list.
So,
guys,
any nickname you can take simply I'm taking my list.
Icos Two.
This one.
This is an empty list.
So if you want to create any list with some values,
right,
let me take my listo.
One equals two so you can provide any type of data night?
No.
So this is the way how you can be finalised,
I guess the very first thing,
your real time.
I mean,
a very important point in your real time from list is sometimes you need to come what you
were listing to bullion.
All right,
you cannot gone already ordered I and do some indeed,
your floor tar string or complex,
Because lister data structure is the combination of data,
right?
Fine.
Now,
in case if I convert our daytime too bullion,
what will happen?
Right?
So for that,
let me take Let me open my command line off.
Fight on,
right?
Simply let me copy.
This has one listener.
This is empty list.
Be clear.
Embry list.
So if I try to convert them the list right Indo 1,000,000,000 see that false?
This is very,
very important.
Empty if anything is empty.
If you convert into bullion,
that is false.
No engine off empty.
Let's see some random data state Any data never died broken what you'll get it through.
So these two points are very,
very important.
Okay,
so m bullion off empty list.
He's It was too false.
Bullion off non empty list it closed toe through.
It's very useful case.
No real time This.
Okay,
fine.
No ways.
So you know the string operations with the index values or based on index values in your
string,
you are taking your displaying particular character from your string.
Let's say how they were to call Hello already We know this just I'm recollecting that
concert.
Hello.
So once If you define your string in this way,
what will happen?
Your python will assign the index value for hatches Jiro the yeas for one second ELT Auriol
and then fourth.
Right?
So filers are there Geritol Four indexes are there in a positive way are in the 90 way
minus one minus two minus three minus four under,
then minus white So you can go with the negative are positive,
Right?
So these are the index values for your strings the same way when number if you define a
list for list awful,
is also python will assign some index values.
Let's say this is your list,
then.
Three That index Jiro,
who is that?
Index one four is an index three started to this entire thing.
Is one data in your list the seas that index three and they see that index of four,
right?
I really one thing.
Even when they do,
they also.
So this is a minus one.
They say that minus two four is a minus three who is at minus four and then five years at
minus fight,
I would take I would write a simple by town skip toe,
Give the clarity on this saw list with index operations.
Let me open my sublime text.
So I'm taking this as my working with a list find after the first thing how to print a word
list.
So I'm going to print my list and I want to see type off.
You are data structure anyone?
We know that there is a list of data structure,
but through bite on,
you can find that to that.
You're getting class as a list night.
Fine.
Now let me come in This.
So,
guys,
we're saying that by Tony's are signing some index values for the world list off values.
So very first values.
Three threes that index way.
Shinjiro know if I want to print very first value from your list.
What if I want to take first value from your list?
I have to take the next geo right.
See,
that would put 40 or getting three.
Then I want to get suppose,
um,
fight on.
I want to display this output.
So python,
is it?
12 3/4 value for two elements indexes three.
Because,
you know,
in lecture starts from Joe,
this is Jiro,
who is one four days after two on fight on his r three.
Right now I want to get fourth.
The value means indexes Three.
Yes,
you are getting on.
This is the way how you can get your particular value from your list based on positive
index values.
Of course,
you can also use negative.
Let me take brain my list off minus one.
You know,
minus one means biting for last value.
It may be string,
or it may be list while going for it.
Maybe a couple also see that.
Or let's say I want to get from last second value I want to get.
That means index values minus two.
You for take minus two.
You will get lot from last second value.
That's it.
Right Now,
let me commend all this.
So this is the way how you can access the world list off values based on index on one more
thing.
See you as have no you fired Lundy's.
Maybe with minus two.
Or I can take this also.
No problem.
What will you send?
Result?
Right,
Because in positive,
your python indexes three in negative indexes minus two.
Right.
You can take anything.
No bottom I'm doing.
Some would pause to next and see the airport body or getting fight on.
No,
guys in guest if I ask Right there.
Soon Bags to get from your list.
This data on in that I want to display only violator.
If I write something that has a display only way.
So first of all.
You have to get this data to get that dead.
Already.
We have a syntax on that is a string in string ways.
Second in the airport,
just after this output?
No,
because off this you're getting this or put in this or port.
Why is that?
Second ablation means indexes one.
No,
no.
See that what I'm doing and see what you're getting by doing this,
we're getting letter white because that is a string against things we can access with both
index values,
right?
Yes.
We just try to practice in the history also.
Then you know,
you never list,
right?
I'm in strings.
If I read something like this,
what is the meaning of this one day?
I want to get from starting to anything.
This is the way,
are simply cannot simply my list also will work.
This also will go your entire list.
But if I want to print something like first index to last one Colon now you will get to
four.
Bite on fine art.
Six.
Because we're mentioning one.
No one means Index one index wanted nothing but to data to four.
Fight on fight at 60 will get.
See that put right.
I want to get from here over the last,
same as you were.
So guys,
distant packs or regulate all this center access because I always give same visit.
This will be helpful for your online exams.
My list or print my list calling.
See,
on the results are seen.
So if you want a printed list,
you can follow anyone of this not fine.
Know what my intention is?
I want to print to something like,
you know,
first index to only three more values.
Print my list from first in next three more values than one place 34 Then you will get
three more violence from one three values.
So,
guys,
you can also consider like,
four minus one means ranges.
Three.
You're getting three values.
That's it.
Okay,
fine.
No,
this is all about Yeah,
we have one more thing so that if I want to change a list off loose based on index,
let's say as off No.
In next Jiro value is three.
But I want to make it as some other value than my list off Jiro,
I'm writing some 45.
See the output?
Yeah,
After that,
I need to print it.
No,
let me print.
Let me come in this line.
Because if you print,
then only you can see the modification.
Right?
So after your operation just tried to print your list and see the output while you're
getting you were next zero value.
You're modifying into 45 right?
You're in.
Next value.
Your modifying into 45 right?
Fine,
No.
Let me come into all these lines on one more thing,
guys.
Because off this data,
I mean this syntax,
you're able to modify your list value,
right?
You are able to modify it.
Were list value that means lists or mutable.
But any time you can change your list off while use part off your list,
right?
So this is very,
very important.
So let's or mutable.
And once again,
you know,
string sore,
immutable.
Once,
if we defend your string,
you cannot take the part off your string.
But see that you can change the part off your list because this operation is alone.
No,
that means you're changing some value in your list.
So let's or mutable.
Fine.
So these are based on index days.
All prisons on the list.
Let me take some other operations.
My list I'm taking,
Let's say 345 something value I want to explain in a different way.
Fine.
No.
First of all,
what are the options available with your list?
How you come to know that,
right?
Nothing is there Just to go to your common line fight on common line.
Already we have in my list,
right?
Some.
This is there.
Simply load the air off your list.
See,
as these are your documentation purpose,
because the list is actually helped an object for you or some of the python classes.
Okay,
That's why these are the documentation,
the later things.
So you have to know only without underscore.
Whatever you have that are,
you are operations,
right?
Don't see one of the opens up there upended.
Clear copy count.
Extra in index insert pop removed.
We were some sort.
First,
let me go with a friend.
Insert extent.
Yeah,
I would go with first index because there is also one of the important one.
See,
let me indexes nothing about getting an index value off a particular value index off.
Let's say five hundreds.
What is the next?
So fight one Because fires occurring there.
First of all,
he started second value means in next is one right?
Okay.
No.
Then that is one thing.
You may get doubt in case it fell.
Multiple fights in your list,
right?
Somebody house,
some very year fight.
No,
I am running.
You're getting in.
Next one means this index value.
Then what about this fight?
So,
in case you were getting one?
No.
Just tried to such after index one.
That means from Index to just try to search and see if there if there is anyone more fight
.
Yes,
it is.
There.
Six to index mean seventh value.
Okay,
fine.
So we don't worry our body,
if you have multiple values,
how to work,
work with that?
We have a separate section for that.
There will discuss it for timing.
If Alice are unique,
how to work with them?
Okay,
fine.
No,
Actually,
the good thing is Reddick's.
We have regular expressions there.
We can do a lot off things.
Meanwhile,
we just try to no minimum things from your list.
Okay,
Index Done.
Then let me take account.
Also,
see,
county is nothing but let me print.
Ah,
you were at least two dot count off any number.
Let's say I want to count Number 10.
How many times it is there in my given list?
Gino Times.
I don't have any 10 in my list,
right?
That's why are getting older.
But as a zero,
No,
let's say somewhat.
I want to count a number which is having suppose three times five,
is there?
No.
Now I'm going to call number five.
How many times it is there in my given list?
Three times.
That's it.
Okay,
fine.
Now that is a boat Conch.
Any next to the little operation?
Yeah,
Clear.
But it's simple.
One clear is nothing back.
So,
guys,
before running my clear operation,
I am printing my list.
Then my list,
lord clear.
Then print my list.
See the output?
You're simply clearing your list.
So there is a uses off your clear guys.
If you Abdur,
sometimes I'm doing operation in print itself.
Sometimes I'm doing operations separately.
The reason is here you are trying to get the fits the information.
This operation is like counting.
Know your counting your not modifying.
So modifying operations don't do with print.
Okay?
Definitely.
Whatever the operation,
you are performing that modification,
really modifying the original data itself because lists or mutable,
whatever the operation you're performing,
that operation will modify the virginal data itself,
right?
So that's why I'm not using this in print statement when you lose spring.
If you want to see the existing information,
that type of operations you are to work with drink or you can also start that result into
some variable and that variable you can print.
Let's say I want to call number times.
Why is there so directly?
I'm printing the cone injured off that what I will do come to fight any variable,
then in this way and I can print this variable.
So why should we take extra variable?
And why should we printed that?
That's why I'm badly printing.
But don't print this data.
This is operation.
You're modifying something.
So if any operation the letter to modification that directly performing this way don't use
print for that getting me after some practice you will come to know that but mean way.
Just remember that so clear is done.
Then let me go with copy.
All right,
See you guys.
If you want to assign one variable value to other.
Let's say X equals 24 and I want the same way.
Ah,
x value to way I cannot send in this way.
Right,
Simba?
I suppose my new list I'm taking it goes to my list.
Okay.
Or my one more list I'm taking equals to my list dot copy.
Both are same.
Nothing There you're You're you're assigning this well used to this one.
This values to this one,
but that same.
But there is a small difference that is,
whenever refer directly are signing this way.
You are not going to create a new memory location in giraffe dark inch Enough dark.
Be clear.
Some margin dirty word list.
Is there somewhere in drumroll Graham memory.
Same address is pointing to this variable also.
Actually,
this is for your weird little variable.
Same on Brussels pointing to this variable.
But if you do copy,
other memory location will be created that are just memory location will be point auto.
This variable That is the use off copy.
They let me pull that.
Bring ideal fighting.
Means are this location,
right?
My list other than my let me take idea off my new list then I'm bringing the last one
separately.
Bring idea my one list.
Just see the output.
See,
for these two were getting,
say might be locations,
but for last one different.
So that is the use off copy operation like Fine.
So this is about copy or are spending one list to other list.
So there are two ways when he's assigning same memory location or just referring to,
say,
memory location or create a new member location and store the results.
Then that result.
We are assigned to different variables.
That's fine.
No,
let me go with I will go with now.
Happened,
Happened is nothing but So as of now,
what is your data?
See that print on my list?
3527389 date No,
I want to add some new data at the end off my list.
That is nothing.
But generally that operation is called generally opening.
So are pending is nothing but for existing information at the end,
your adding something that is a meaning off happening.
Same thing is applicable with your list.
Also,
let's say my list door open.
So that's for this operation.
Also,
I'm not using prince treatment because this is going to Marty for your data,
but nobody for modifying your list.
That operation don't go with Prince.
My list open.
I want to open some number for physics so often upending just after the result.
56 our guardian.
But I want you are the statistics somewhere between three and fight are between 217
anywhere in case,
if I insert between three and five offer inserting my number whatever.
I'm going to insert that insert,
er data index will be one because 305 is one as off.
No,
but if I insert between this you're getting right,
So see that my list insert,
Let's say index one value 45.
They offer inserting and see your list.
See between three.
And if I You inserted your data based on index position,
our plan is going to add at the end.
But instead he's going to are based on in exposition.
Where do you want to insert?
So one index one.
I should have a value called 45.
Then see that three 45 5 So 30 45 is one.
Right?
So a pen inside are used to our your data to your list.
Our friend is going to argue that our dear inside he's going to rt or data to your existing
list based on your required in exposition.
Right?
Fine.
Now you have one more thing called extend operation.
See that?
Some very how Extend extent.
Right.
So we have seen insert let me go with Ex turn So suppose I have a one new list to call five
and six If I simply do my lister daughter pen my new list And after this operation just
after your output all you're getting your list upend means rd in your writing your fight
Come on six data as a list often see last values Also one list You're getting square
Riggers.
No,
but instead of upend enough,
upenn,
if I take extended No,
see the result You don't know the score records directly.
It is a normal data.
You are adding your list as a normal data into your existing list.
That's it,
right,
So that is all about the work extent?
Fine.
So we done with ah parent Clear copy context Earn index also done in such a done no papa
and removed the money is going to remove your value directly.
Poppy is going to remove.
It is done in exploitation.
Let's say I'm doing foster thing.
You're list.
So as I know.
What is your least?
Let me check it.
So this is your list?
They So I'm doing some operation.
Called my list removed.
Let's a value called 10.
Right after this.
I'm trying to print.
Actually,
you don't have a number 10 in your list.
But if I do that,
see that or you are getting X is not in the list.
That means whatever the value you're removing,
that is not in the list.
Right?
So a new real time.
I know.
But if you're doing this operation before that,
it will take some condition.
If conditions,
then we will remove it.
If it is there,
then only will remain.
If it is not there,
we don't remove it in case.
Whatever the value you are having that value I want to remove.
Right?
So what are the values were having?
35 to 7.
Let me take a No.
See that.
Put off the removal operation.
You are removing number eight,
right?
No.
Let me come in to remove now What I'm doing is you help pop operation first.
Let me do this.
My list dot Pop I'm not giving any in expiration.
First seed output.
What it is doing So before,
Pop,
this is the data after pop.
This is the data night.
So by the Ford Pop will remove the last data.
If you do in expiration,
let's say I'm giving in next to next to or let's say next.
Jiro.
No.
See that?
Put if you provide index equation,
it will remove that data.
If you don't provide by default,
it will remove the last two data.
Last index value right on.
One important point is there with your pop operation.
Let me show you that.
So as off know what is our list?
This is your least right drink.
Actually,
your poppies modifying your data.
All right.
That's why actually you should not use you.
Are that operation my list too dark pop into print.
But the daily special property with your pop that is your parts will remove your data at
the same time.
It also gives What is that?
The night is going to remove.
That's why I can use it in my Prince statement see the output it is removing mine.
That is,
it is giving Are the same time that data is removed from your list,
That's why.
Sit output.
So only pop operation will do the data.
What?
It is moving at the same time it will remove in.
We know what General data,
Right.
So that is a use off,
pop.
No.
Let me come in this.
Now we help rewards and sort.
Let me go with sort first other ways as I know what he's ordered.
A grace.
See that?
Output ones.
This is your data.
Okay?
No,
I'm doing something called my list,
not let me do the worst.
First on offer reverse.
See,
what is your list?
Is there?
See before reverse operation on offer rewards operation.
So it is like,
you know,
middle image off your data right now.
Let me comment your rewards operation,
and I'm going to do my list dot sort operation.
So sort is nothing,
but it is going to arrange your data in ascending order.
See that?
No.
If you want to get to data in descending order first to perform,
sort on then do you were reverse operation?
No.
See the output listening order.
Arles.
You can also use shortcut ass my least dot sort.
Here again,
right.
Reverse equals toe group.
So engine off,
performing rivers separately.
You can also do in this way.
Now,
see,
that is a yes.
You're getting in the reverse order.
Right?
So,
guys,
these all over the operations on the white list.
Okay,
So in the next video,
we'll discuss about a couple.
All right?
Okay,
guys,
thank you for watching this video.